

## Questions:

Q1. What is the difference between var and let?
 ANS: let is used to define constants, the values which are meant to be constant always whereas var is used
 to define variables for which values can be changed anytime.
 

Q2. What is an optional?
 ANS: An optional in swift is basically a constant or variable which can either hold a value or can be nil
 means no value at all. It is denoted by appending a "?" after the declaration. 


Q3. What is optional chaining vs optional binding?
 ANS: Optional chaining is a process of calling methods, properties and subscripts on an optional. It depends
 if the optional is returning value or returning nil but it will always return a type of optional value.
 Optional binding is the method of checking in a safe way wether the constant has a value or nil, as we know
 forcing unwrap creates a runtime error if it doesn't have any value I.e nil.


Q4. What are the different ways to unwrap an optional? How do they work? Are they safe?
 ANS: Following are methods to unwrap optional:

1. By using an if-else block. Check the optional variable by putting not equal to nil and else print it 
Has no value.

2. Unwrap an optional type with forced unwrapping. This method is usually used when we are sure that an 
Optional has a value. We do this by us adding ! Sign with optional variable.

3. Unwrap an optional type with the nil coalescing operator. This method is similar to if else block with 
Just a single operator I.e. ??

4. Optional Binding unwrapping method. Check the optional variable by putting not equal to nil, if it has some value,
It can be stored to some temporary variable.

Methods 1,3,4 are safe to use.


Q5. What is a closure?

ANS: A closure is a special type of function that has no name, we may call a function without name.
 Syntax: { (parameters) -> returnType in
          // statements}


Q6. What is the difference between a class and a struct?

ANS: The main difference between Classes and struct is that classes are reference type and structs are value
Type. It means reference type is actually you are pointing as a pointer and in value you are actually copying 
Which does not change the value.


Q7. What is the syntax '??' do?

ANS: ?? Syntax is used for Unwrapping an optional type and is called coalescing operator.


Q8. What is a tuple?

ANS: A tuple is a group of different values means each value in tuple can be of different data types 
And its elements can be accessed like an array.  


Q9. What is Any vs AnyObject?

ANS: Any can represent an instance of any type at all including function types whereas anyobject can represent 
Any class type. 



Q10. What is a protocol?

ANS: In swift a protocol is like blueprint of methods or properties that can then be adopted by classes or
Any other types and they must conform to the protocol.


Q11. What is Delegation?

ANS: Delegation is used for everything from handling table view events using UITABLEVIEWDELEGATE, to modifying
Cache behaviour using NSCacheDelegate. The core objective is to allow an object to communicate back to its 
Owner in a decoupled way.


Read this article
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/choosing_between_structures_and_classes
